## Introduction 

This is a preview release of the High-level enhancements for AWS in C++, which consists of high-level abstractions
for AWS services in the style of the C++ standard library. Included examples show how to read and write S3
objects using IOStreams, call AWS lambdas in the style of thread functions and demonstrate how STL algorithms
(currently only `transform`) can take advantage of AWS Lambda concurrency to speed up an example program
from 15 minutes to 9 seconds.

As an experimental preview release, there are many gaps in coverage that we will fill over time and expect that interfaces will change. Note that this
is provided on an AS-IS basis. See Section 7 of [LICENSE](LICENSE)
for more information.

## Requirements
#### For users
- `zip`
- [CMake 3.15+](https://cmake.org/)
- [AWS SDK for C++ 1.9+](https://github.com/aws/aws-sdk-cpp)
- [AWS CLI](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/getting-started-install.html) for uploading the AWS Lambda functions.
- A [C++20](https://isocpp.org/) compatible compiler. (C++17 may
work)
- [AWS Lambda Runtime for C++](https://github.com/awslabs/aws-lambda-cpp)
- [TL Expected](https://github.com/TartanLlama/expected) for 
compilers that do not yet support `std::expected`
#### Additional dependencies for developers
- [GoogleTest 1.11+](https://github.com/google/googletest)

To make changes to the codebase and contribute changes please read our [development guide](DEVELOPMENT.md)
## Installation
The installation follows Modern CMake idioms. A quick start script to build and install the projects is below for reference.

The following script assumes the project code was downloaded and the shell is at the project source code directory.
```shell
mkdir build
cd build
cmake ..
cmake --build . 
cmake --install . 
```
Alternatively, a native installation package can be created using `cpack` for distributing to multiple machines after built once.
```shell 
mkdir build
cd build
cmake ..
cmake --build . 
cpack
``` 
`cpack` will generate a bundle package with the installation artifacts generated by cmake. For example, in MacOS, it creates a `awslabs_enhanced_cpp-0.1.0-Darwin.tgz` file that can be expanded in the installation location.

## Usage
See [Quick Tutorial](https://github.com/awslabs/high-level-enhancements-for-aws-in-cpp/tree/main/doc#quick-tutorial)
for usage instructions.
Examples are in the `doc/examples` directory.

## Basic Features
### RAII classes
RAII classes `AwsApi` for initializing the API, `Logging` for
initializing logging.

### S3 stream abstractions
The `is3stream` and `os3stream` libraries can be used to read and
write data in `s3` in a similar style to the use of
`fstream` to read and write files. 

### Lambda abstractions
The `lambda_client.h` header facilitates
calling lambdas from C++ similarly to other callables. See  `lambda_add_example.cpp` for a simple example. The `central_limit_theorem.cpp` example shows how to use the
`transform` function template to take advantage of AWS Lambda's built-in concurrency to efficiently transform an iterator rannge. 

The `aws_lambda.h` header facilitates
the creation of lambda functions. See `lambda_add_fn.cpp` for an
example. To package the lambda function for the cloud, you can
use `aws_lambda_package_target` from the AWS Lambda Runtime for
C++ as shown in the `CMakeLists.txt` in the `examples` directory.

To deploy the lambda function from the CLI, you can use the
command 
```shell
cli_deploy_cpp_lambda lambda_name iam_role zipped_lambda_package
```
You can also use your preferred Infrastructure as Code technique,and there is an (under development) script for [AWS SAM](https://aws.amazon.com/serverless/sam/) deployment included as well. 

